1) Team name
Mention your team name.
(0 points)
FIFA

2) Member names
Mention the names of your team members.
(0 points)
Tessa Kim, Guillermo Tafur, Catarina Peixoto, Tamara Bendeck

3) Link to the GitHub repository
Share the link of the team’s project repository on GitHub.
Also, put the link to your project’s GitHub repository here.
We believe there is no harm in having other teams view your GitHub repository. However, if you don’t want anyone to see your team’s work, you may make the repository Private and add your instructor and graduate TA as Colloborators in it.
(0 points)
https://github.com/tamaravbendeck/northwesternfifa.git

4) Topic
Mention the topic of your course project.
(0.25 points)
Our project is about the FIFA game, and the connections between player characteristics and their price. 

5) Problem statement
Explain the problem statement. The problem statement must include:
The problem
Is it a regression or classification problem or a combination of both?
Is it an inference or prediction problem or a combination of both?
How will you assess model accuracy?
If it is a classification problem, then which measure(s) will you optimize for your model – precision, recall, false negative rate (FNR), accuracy, ROC-AUC etc., and why?
If it is a regression problem, then which measure(s) will you optimize for your model – RMSE (Root mean squared error), MAE (mean absolute error), maximum absolute error etc., and why?
What techniques do you think you may need to use to improve your model? If you have too many variables, some of which are correlated or collinear, you may need to do variable selection (techniques for variable selection that you will learn later in the course - stepwise regression, lasso, ridge regression). If the variables do not have a linear relationship with the response, or if some of the modeling assumptions are not satisfied, you may need to transform the predictors and/or the response (variable transformation) to obtain a better fit.
(5 points)

Our problem is understanding the impact of different characteristics and stats of players on their price. It is a regression problem because we are trying to determine a continuous quantitative variable: price. We are interested in inference in this scenario because we are analyzing the association between player characteristics and price. We plan to optimize RMSE because we don’t anticipate many outliers in our data as many of the players will have similar characteristics/price at the level they are playing at. Giving weight to large errors will allow us to notice exceptions to our analysis as well. We plan to do variable selection as characterics such as height and weight don’t determine price as well as characteristics such as position will cause high variation from player to player.

6) Data sources
What data sources will you use, and how will the data help answer the questions? Explain.
If the data is open source, share the link of the data.
(1 point)
We will use a data set provided by sport-statistics (https://sports-statistics.com/soccer/fifa-2022-dataset-csvs/). This data set contains the player characteristics and prices from FIFA 22, which will allow us to make inferences about the association between these two variable groups. 

7) Stakeholders
Who are the stakeholders, and how will your project benefit them? Explain.
(1 point)
Our stakeholders are FIFA career mode users. This analysis will benefit them because by knowing which player characteristics influence the price of said player, the user will be able to make better choices for the game, and eventually make better use of their money. 

8) Results
What kind of results do you expect?
How much accuracy is required / desired in your model (based on the metric(s) chosen in question 5), such that it is useful to the stakeholders and why?
Hint: If it is a classification model, then your model must be at least better than random classification. If it is a regression model, then your model must be at least better than trivial models, such as the one with only the intercept term.
(0.5 point)

We expect to find that agility and long shots are the two characteristics most strongly associated with the price of a player.  Finding the R^2 value will also help inform the relationship between our independent and dependent variables. 

We need high accuracy in order to be useful to stakeholders because if we fail to remove the unrelated variables, they could overestimate or underestimate the effect of the characteristics we want on price.

9) Work-splitv go
How do you plan to split the project work amongst individual team members?
(0.25 point)

For this project, we plan to separate the code into 4 parts, and then work together to combine and review the final project. The presentation, report and proposal will be worked on by the whole group in weekly meetings.  

